Hello my friends.
Welcome back.
Are you ready to finish and complete that cleaning of all our reviews.
Let's do this.
So just to recap on what we did so far.
We made this follow up to you know treat each review separately and clean each of them separately.
And the first thing we did for each of these reviews was to replace all these non letters by spaces.
And basically all the punctuation by spaces.
Then we turned all the letters into lowercase.
So all these capital letters were turned into lowercase and finally we split it.
Each review into its different words because now we were about to proceed with stemming which consist
of simplifying each word by the root of the word.
So for example Luft will be replaced by love and I remind that it's very important to do this to optimize
the dimensionality of the sparse matrix which will be created through the next step with the bag of
words moral.
Indeed we will create that sparse matrix where each column is a word among all the different words of
our different reviews after the cleaning.
And therefore we need to simplify to the maximum.
Well the different words that are going to be in this parse matrix.
So it's very very important to apply stemming and that's what we're about to do right now.
All right.
So remember we imported this poorest demo class.
That's exactly the class that will apply stemming.
And so now the first thing we'll do is actually create an object of this class which we will call p
s for you know poorest DMA in poorest demo is a particular type of stem.
You can check it out online but that's basically the classic way of applying stemming.
So P.S. And now we will just call the class Potter stem nerd.
Perfect.
Then adding some parenthesis and we don't have to enter any parameters.
So let me actually scroll down a bit.
All right.
This will be easier for you.
So Boris stammer now we have our object so basically we have our tool to apply the stemming and therefore.
Well the next step will be exactly to apply stemming to this particular review we're dealing with right
now inside this full loop iterating all the reviews.
So the way we're going to do this because you know we have to place them to each of the words inside
this review and the words have already been gathered separately by splitting this review.
And therefore what we're going to do now is first well update our review again to become this time a
list of all these separate words coming from the split but stamped you know after we applied stemming
on them.
And so now the question is how are we going to apply stemming to each of the words of the review.
Well we're going to do that of course with a single row for loop as I like to call it.
You know a full loop inside the same row which is you know usually applied to lists.
And since now we actually have a list of the words in the reviews.
Thanks to this step in here.
Well we can totally apply this single rule for loop to iterate through all the words of the review and
apply stemming to each of them.
So let's actually start with this for loop.
We're going to start with four which will iterate through all the word you know so word is just a iterator
variable that will be equal to the different words of the review.
So forward then in review.
Right.
Because review is now a list of different words.
So it will iterate through all the different words of this review and then we will add something which
is probably something you will see for the first time if you're new to Python but here after a single
row for loop we can actually add a condition to omit some of the words we are iterating through.
And according to you what do we want to commit.
You know what do we want not to include in the full loop.
Well that's of course.
Remember them the stop words.
Right.
Remember we want to get rid of all the words that won't help us or you know that won't help the machine
learning model to understand whether a review is positive or negative.
And these include all the articles like the.
And like an apple we would just keep Apple for example and even all the pronouns.
You know like I you he she we you know then they all these words give us absolutely no hint to figure
out whether review is positive or negative.
And therefore we want to get rid of all these tough words.
And that's again for the same purpose as stemming it is to simplify the final sparse matrix which will
contain all the different words of all our reviews into columns so we not only want to simplify the
different versions of words in the branches of words by only keeping their root but also we want to
get with all the stop words in order not to include them in the sparse matrix and a way to do this.
You know the way to omit these words when iterating through the different words in the review is by
just adding f here and then and not you know you will understand after I finished this.
So let me just write it if not word in the set off then I'm going to call the stop word module here.
You know this stopwatch here from which I'm gonna get all the English stop words because you know our
reviews are in English and the way to do this is to add here words and then in parentheses because that's
a function.
And then in quote English.
OK.
So we clearly understand what this means.
It means that if the word of the review you know we're dealing with right now in this for loop if this
word is not in the set you know the symbol of all the English stop word well we will consider it in
this for loop and meaning we will apply the stemming.
However if this word is in all these Stoppard's list well we want to include it in this for loop and
therefore we won't apply the stem into it and therefore it won't be in the future sparse matrix.
So you see the trick pretty cool but so far we only have the for loop and we don't know what we're gonna
do for each of these words so we have to specify it now.
And remember we have to specify this before the for loop because that's a single row for loop.
And so what we're going to specify is of course that we want to apply the stemming to each of these
words in the review which are not just upwards.
And so now the question is how do we apply this timing.
Well remember we just created our poorest demo object so we're going to start with this calling our
object from which we're gonna call a specific method which is exactly the stem method that will apply
to stemming.
And since it has method and adding some parentheses and now I'm sure you guessed perfectly what's inside
these Parentheses you know what must be inside.
And that's of course our word.
Right.
Our word on which we want to apply stemming and now.
There you go my friends all this line of code.
Apply this timing to all the words in your review except the stop words except all the non relevant
words that are not helpful to predict whether a review is positive or negative.
Great.
So that's a good step down.
Now you know how to replace Deming to a review and now since we actually have are different words in
the review into a list we will just join them back together because you know we actually had to do this
in order to easily apply this Deming to all the words thanks to this full loop but now that it's done
we will just join these words back together to get the original format of the review you know as a string
and therefore the way to do this is to well you know update our review variable again by setting it
equal to well the junction of these different words after we applied stemming to them and the way to
do this is by calling the join function which takes us input exactly well our list you know the review
which contains a list of the different words after stemming was applied to them and however if we join
them this way this will you know stick the words together and we will end up with one word that makes
no sense.
So in order to separate these words by a space you know as an eclectic string or text well we just looked
at here in quotes and then inside of quotes we add a space and then separating this with the join review
by a dot.
All right.
So this will not only join your review but also adding space between each word of your review.
So good.
Now you know how to do this as well.
And finally we have a final step here.
I'm sure you guess what it is.
Otherwise please press pause to just finish this cell implementation.
But that's pretty obvious.
All we did here was a transformation on a single review.
And thanks to this for looking out all the different reviews of our data set will be transformed and
will be cleaned and essentially will be simplified.
But now remember we have this corpus here that was initialized as an empty list and we want to add all
these client reviews into the corpus because that's what will be expected by the method of the class
that will create the bag of words model.
And therefore we must absolutely now add each review to the corpus.
And the way to do this is by taking our corpus list and then call the append function to append indeed
the review and that's it my friends we are done with the cleaning of the texts.
So now we're going to execute this.
You know I think we deserve it.
That was quite a long cell implementation.
So let's do this.
However my runtime actually stopped.
So I have to restore it by clicking You know runtime and then restart runtime I will re execute the
two for sales and this one and we'll make sure that everything works correctly.
All right.
All good here.
Let's do this.
Let's first re-employ the libraries done imported dataset done as well.
And now let's see.
And let's hope we didn't make any mistake.
Let's play this cell cleaning all the texts all the reviews and it seems to be all good.
And yes this is what we're supposed to get.
Perfect.
So here it downloaded the you know stop words package from this path containing all the anti-gay data
and also it's unzipped this zip file containing all the stoppers and perfect and then of course it applied
all this cleaning process to each of the reviews and adding them to the final chorus.
Perfect so now now it is time for the next essential step when doing sentiment analysis.
It will be to create the bag of words model which will consist basically of creating this past matrix
containing now all the words of the reviews after they were cleaned.
So we will take all the different words of all the reviews will put them in different columns of the
sparse matrix and then that will be actually our future matrix of features which we will combine to
the dependent variable vector containing all the binary outcomes to train our future machinery model
which will be a need based model to learn the text and understand whether the reviews are positive or
negative.
So I can't wait to proceed to this next step creating the bag of words model with you.
And until then enjoy machine learning.